---
layout: page
title: Research
permalink: /research/
---
## HI Observations of MaNGA Major Merger Pairs

The role of $\rm H{\sc i}$ content in galaxy interactions is still under debate. To study the $\rm H{\sc i}$ content of galaxy pairs at different merging stages, we compile a sample of 66 major-merger galaxy pairs and 433 control galaxies from the SDSS-IV MaNGA IFU survey. In this study, we adopt kinematic asymmetry as a new effective indicator to describe the merging stage of galaxy pairs. We obtain the $\rm H{\sc i}$ gas properties from observations with the Five-hundred-meter Aperture Spherical Radio Telescope (FAST) and archival data of the HI-MaNGA survey. We present the detection of 6 $\rm H{\sc i}$ emission and 1 $\rm H{\sc i}$ absorption lines with FAST. Using these data, we investigated the differences of $f_\text{H{\sc i}}$, SFR, and $\rm SFE_{H{\sc i}}$ between the pair and control samples. Our results suggest that the $\rm H{\sc i}$ gas fraction of major-merger pairs on average is marginally decreased by $\sim 17\%$ relative to isolated galaxies, implying mild $\rm H{\sc i}$ depletion during galaxy interactions. Compared to isolated galaxies, pre-passage paired galaxies have similar $f_{\text{H{\sc i}}}$, SFR and $\rm SFE_{H{\sc i}}$, while pairs during pericentric passage have moderately decreased $f_{\text{H{\sc i}}$ ($-0.18\pm0.07$ dex) and significantly enhanced SFR ($0.29\pm0.11$ dex), $\rm SFE_{H{\sc i}}$ ($0.44\pm0.12$ dex). When approaching the apocenter, paired galaxies show marginally decreased $f_{\text{H{\sc i}}}$ ($-0.07\pm0.05$ dex) and comparable SFR ($-0.02\pm0.09$ dex), $\rm SFE_{H{\sc i}}$ ($0.05\pm0.08$ dex). We propose the marginally detected $\rm H{\sc i}$ depletion may originate from the gas consumption in fuelling the enhanced $\rm H_2$ reservoir of galaxy pairs. The newly detected $\rm H{\sc i}$ absorber ($N_{\rm H{\sc i}} \sim 4.7 \times 10^{21} \text{ cm}^{-2}$) may reveal the infalling gas and the triggering of AGN.
